CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

## how to build the Jenkins Plugin
 
### Install skdman
```
sudo apt install zip
curl -s "https://get.sdkman.io" | bash
source .sdkman/bin/sdkman-init.sh 
```

### install JDK and Maven
```
sdk install java 8.0.232-open
javac -version
sdk install maven
mvn -version
```

### install fontconfig on ubuntu
```
sudo apt install -y fontconfig
```
Error without fontconfig
```
Caused by: java.lang.NullPointerException
        at sun.awt.FontConfiguration.getVersion(FontConfiguration.java:1264)
        at sun.awt.FontConfiguration.readFontConfigFile(FontConfiguration.java:219)
```

### test, build and package
```
mvn verify
mvn hpi:run
mvn package
```
Plugin **./target/Image_Tag_Parameter.hpi** can be installed on any jenkins instance

### access the dev environment
Point the url to http://localhost:8080/jenkins

### Publish to Jenkins plugin repo
see https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Hosting+Plugins#HostingPlugins-Releasingtojenkins-ci.org (.m2/settings.xml and ssh keys)
```
mvn release:prepare release:perform
```

Commit message:

add link to Org global Contributing Guidelines

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing Guidelines

The global [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/jenkinsci/.github/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) apply to this repo.

## how to build the Jenkins Plugin
 
### Install skdman
```
sudo apt install zip
curl -s "https://get.sdkman.io" | bash
source .sdkman/bin/sdkman-init.sh 
```

### install JDK and Maven
```
sdk install java 8.0.232-open
javac -version
sdk install maven
mvn -version
```

### install fontconfig on ubuntu
```
sudo apt install -y fontconfig
```
Error without fontconfig
```
Caused by: java.lang.NullPointerException
        at sun.awt.FontConfiguration.getVersion(FontConfiguration.java:1264)
        at sun.awt.FontConfiguration.readFontConfigFile(FontConfiguration.java:219)
```

### test, build and package
```
mvn verify
mvn hpi:run
mvn package
```
Plugin **./target/Image_Tag_Parameter.hpi** can be installed on any jenkins instance

### access the dev environment
Point the url to http://localhost:8080/jenkins

### Publish to Jenkins plugin repo
see https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Hosting+Plugins#HostingPlugins-Releasingtojenkins-ci.org (.m2/settings.xml and ssh keys)
```
mvn release:prepare release:perform
```
